# [1342. Number of Steps to Reduce a Number to Zero](https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-steps-to-reduce-a-number-to-zero/)

**Difficulty:** :green_circle: Easy

Given an integer num, return the number of steps to reduce it to zero.
In one step, if the current number is even, you have to divide it by 2, otherwise, you have to subtract 1 from it.

## Examples:

**Example 1:**
```text
Input: num = 14
Output: 6
Explanation: 
Step 1) 14 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 7. 
Step 2) 7 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 6.
Step 3) 6 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 3. 
Step 4) 3 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 2. 
Step 5) 2 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 1. 
Step 6) 1 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 0.

```

**Example 2:**

```text
Input: num = 8
Output: 4
Explanation: 
Step 1) 8 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 4. 
Step 2) 4 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 2. 
Step 3) 2 is even; divide by 2 and obtain 1. 
Step 4) 1 is odd; subtract 1 and obtain 0.
```

**Example 3:**

```text
Input: num = 123
Output: 12
```

## Constraints:

- `0 <= num <= 106`


## Solutions

### Simple O(log n) solution

#### Python3
```python3
class Solution:
    def numberOfSteps(self, num: int) -> int:
        steps = 0
        while num:
            if num % 2:
                num -= 1
            else:
                num //= 2
            steps += 1
        return steps
```

#### GO
```go
func numberOfSteps(num int) int {
   steps := 0
   for num > 0 {
       if num%2 == 0 {
           num = num/2
       } else {
           num = num - 1
       }
       steps++
   } 
   return steps
}
```

The given solution solves the problem by iteratively reducing the number `num` to zero. It uses a variable `steps` to keep track of the number of steps taken. The algorithm performs the following steps:
1. Initialize `steps` to 0.
2. Enter a while loop that continues as long as `num` is not zero.
3. Inside the while loop, check if `num` is odd by using the condition `num % 2`. If it is odd, subtract 1 from `num`.
4. If `num` is even, divide it by 2 using the floor division operator `//`.
5. Increment `steps` by 1.
6. Repeat steps 3-5 until `num` becomes zero.
7. Return the value of `steps`.

#### Complexity Analysis

The time complexity of this algorithm is O(log num) because in each step, the value of `num` is either divided by 2 or decremented by 1. The number of steps required to reduce `num` to zero is proportional to the number of times it can be divided by 2.

The space complexity of the algorithm is O(1) since it uses a constant amount of extra space to store the variable `steps`.

#### Summary

The given solution calculates the number of steps required to reduce a given integer `num` to zero by performing the required operations in an iterative manner. The algorithm has a time complexity of O(log num) and a space complexity of O(1), making it efficient for the given constraints.

***NB***: If you want to get community points please suggest solutions in other languages as merge requests.
