# [1480. Running Sum of 1d Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/running-sum-of-1d-array/)

**Difficulty:** :green_circle: Easy

Given an array `nums`. We define a running sum of an array as `runningSum[i] = sum(nums[0]…nums[i])`.
Return the running sum of `nums`.

## Examples:

**Example 1:**

```text
Input: nums = [1,2,3,4]
Output: [1,3,6,10]
Explanation: Running sum is obtained as follows: [1, 1+2, 1+2+3, 1+2+3+4].
```

**Example 2:**

```text
Input: nums = [1,1,1,1,1]
Output: [1,2,3,4,5]
Explanation: Running sum is obtained as follows: [1, 1+1, 1+1+1, 1+1+1+1, 1+1+1+1+1].
```

**Example 3:**

```text
Input: nums = [3,1,2,10,1]
Output: [3,4,6,16,17]
```

## Constraints:

- `1 <= nums.length <= 1000` 
- `-10^6 <= nums[i] <= 10^6`


## Solutions

We need to iterate over existing array of elements and update number at position with
sum of previously seen numbers. In order to keep previously seen numbers sum we need to
keep `current` by adding `num` at position. 

### O(n) solution

#### Python3
```python3
class Solution(object):
    def runningSum(self, nums):
        """
        :type nums: List[int]
        :rtype: List[int]
        """
        current = 0
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            num = nums[i]
            nums[i] += current
            current += num
        return nums
```

The given solution solves the problem by iteratively calculating the running sum of the array `nums`. It uses a variable `current` to keep track of the current running sum. The algorithm performs the following steps:
1. Initialize `current` to 0.
2. Iterate through each element `num` in `nums` using a for loop.
3. Update `nums[i]` by adding `current` to it.
4. Update `current` by adding the original value of `num`.
5. Return the modified `nums` array.

#### Complexity Analysis

The time complexity of this algorithm is O(n), where n is the length of the input array `nums`. The algorithm iterates through each element of `nums` once.

The space complexity of the algorithm is O(1) since it does not use any additional data structures that grow with the input size.

#### Summary

The given solution calculates the running sum of an array `nums` by iterating through each element and updating the array in-place. The algorithm has a time complexity of O(n) and a space complexity of O(1), making it efficient for the given constraints.

***NB***: If you want to get community points please suggest solutions in other languages as merge requests.
