# [1551. Minimum Operations to Make Array Equal](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-operations-to-make-array-equal/)

**Difficulty:** :yellow_circle: Medium

You have an array `arr` of length `n` where `arr[i] = (2 * i) + 1` for all valid values of `i` (i.e., `0 <= i < n`).
In one operation, you can select two indices `x` and `y` where `0 <= x, y < n` and subtract `1` from `arr[x]` and add `1` to `arr[y]` (i.e., perform `arr[x] -=1` and `arr[y] += 1`). The goal is to make all the elements of the array `equal`. It is `guaranteed` that all the elements of the array can be made equal using some operations.
Given an integer `n`, the length of the array, return the minimum number of operations needed to make all the elements of arr equal.

## Examples:

**Example 1:**
```text
Input: n = 3
Output: 2
Explanation: arr = [1, 3, 5]
First operation choose x = 2 and y = 0, this leads arr to be [2, 3, 4]
In the second operation choose x = 2 and y = 0 again, thus arr = [3, 3, 3].

```

**Example 2:**
```text
Input: n = 6
Output: 9
```

## Constraints:
- `1 <= n <= 104`


## Solutions

Read [explanation here](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-operations-to-make-array-equal/solutions/1145020/js-python-java-c-easy-o-1-1-liner-mathematical-solutions-w-explanation/).

### O(1) solution

#### Python3
```python3
class Solution(object):
    def minOperations(self, n):
        """
        :type n: int
        :rtype: int
        """
        return n * n // 4
```

The given solution solves the problem using a mathematical approach. It calculates the minimum number of operations required by dividing the sum of the array `arr` by `n` (which represents the target value each element should have). The formula used to calculate the sum of the array is `(n * n) // 4`, where `//` represents integer division.

The algorithm performs the following steps:
1. Calculate the target value that each element of `arr` should have, which is the sum of `arr` divided by `n`. The formula used is `(n * n) // 4`.
2. Return the target value as the minimum number of operations required to make all elements of `arr` equal.

#### Complexity Analysis

The time complexity of this algorithm is O(1) because it performs a constant number of mathematical operations.

The space complexity of the algorithm is O(1) because it uses a fixed amount of additional space to store the intermediate result.

#### Summary

The given solution determines the minimum number of operations required to make all elements of the array `arr` equal. It uses a mathematical approach by calculating the target value each element should have. The algorithm has a time complexity of O(1) and a space complexity of O(1), making it efficient for the given constraints.

***NB***: If you want to get community points please suggest solutions in other languages as merge requests.
