# [2652. Sum Multiples](https://leetcode.com/problems/sum-multiples/description/)

**Difficulty:** :green_circle: Easy

Given a positive integer `n`, find the sum of all integers in the range `[1, n]` inclusive that is divisible by `3`, `5`, or `7`.
Return an integer denoting the sum of all numbers in the given range satisfying the constraint.


## Examples:
 
**Example 1:**
```text
Input: n = 7
Output: 21
Explanation: Numbers in the range [1, 7] that are divisible by 3, 5, or 7 are 3, 5, 6, 7. The sum of these numbers is 21.
```

**Example 2:**
```text
Input: n = 10
Output: 40
Explanation: Numbers in the range [1, 10] that are divisible by 3, 5, or 7 are 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10. The sum of these numbers is 40.
```

**Example 3:**
```text
Input: n = 9
Output: 30
Explanation: Numbers in the range [1, 9] that are divisible by 3, 5, or 7 are 3, 5, 6, 7, 9. The sum of these numbers is 30.
```

## Constraints:

- `1 <= n <= 103`


## Solutions

### Simple O(n) 

#### Python3

```python3
class Solution:
    def sumOfMultiples(self, n: int) -> int:
        total = 0
        for i in range(1, n+1):
            if i % 3 == 0 or i % 5 == 0 or i % 7 == 0:
                total += i
        return total
                
```

#### TypeScript

```typescript
function sumOfMultiples(n: number): number {
    let total = 0;
    for(let i = 0; i <= n; i++) {
        if((i % 3 === 0) || (i % 5 === 0) || (i % 7 === 0)) {
            total += i;
        }
    }
    return total;
}
```


#### Java (with O(1) complexity solution)
```java
class Day008 {
    /* 
        Calculate sum of multiples using arithmetic progression technique
     */
    public int sumOfMultiples(int n) {
        return calcArithmetic(3, n) + calcArithmetic(5, n) + calcArithmetic(7, n) + calcArithmetic(3 * 5 * 7, n)
                - calcArithmetic(3 * 5, n) - calcArithmetic(3 * 7, n) - calcArithmetic(7 * 5, n);
    }
    
    /*
        Return arithmetic of numbers starting from a1 with a1 difference up to num using
        the formula: s = n/2 * (a1 + an) where
        - a1: first term
        - an: last term
        - n: number of terms
     */
    public int calcArithmetic(int a1, int num) {
        int n = num / a1;
        int an = n * a1;
        return n * (a1 + an) / 2;
    }
}
```
The given solution solves the problem by performing the following steps:
1. Initialize a variable `total` to 0 to keep track of the sum.
2. Iterate over the range from 1 to `n+1`.
3. In each iteration, check if the current number `i` is divisible by 3, 5, or 7 using the modulo operator `%`.
4. If `i` is divisible by any of the three numbers, add it to the `total` sum.
5. After the loop ends, return the final value of `total`, which represents the sum of all numbers in the range [1, n] that satisfy the constraint.

#### Complexity Analysis

The time complexity of this algorithm is O(n) because we iterate over the range from 1 to `n` once.

The space complexity of the algorithm is O(1) because we only use a constant amount of extra space to store the `total` variable.

#### Summary

The given solution calculates the sum of all integers in the range [1, n] that are divisible by 3, 5, or 7 by iterating over the range and checking each number for divisibility. It has a time complexity of O(n) and a space complexity of O(1), making it efficient for the given constraints.

***NB***: If you want to get community points please suggest solutions in other languages as merge requests.
