# [1108. Defanging an IP Address](https://leetcode.com/problems/defanging-an-ip-address/)

**Difficulty:** :green_circle: Easy

Given a valid (IPv4) IP `address`, return a defanged version of that IP address.

A defanged IP address replaces every period `"."` with `"[.]"`.

## Examples:

**Example 1:**
```text
Input: address = "1.1.1.1"
Output: "1[.]1[.]1[.]1"
```

**Example 2:**
```text
Input: address = "255.100.50.0"
Output: "255[.]100[.]50[.]0"
```

## Constraints:

- The given address is a valid IPv4 `address`. 


## Solutions

Defanged IP addresses are entries that have been modified in a 
standardized way such as to prevent accidental access. 

# O(N) solution

#### Python3
```python
class Solution:
    def defangIPaddr(self, address: str) -> str:
        return "[.]".join(address.split("."))
```

#### TypeScript
```
class Solution {
  defangIPaddr(address: string): string {
    return address.split(".").join("[.]");
  }
}
```

The given solution solves the problem by performing the following steps:
1. Split the given `address` string at each occurrence of a period "." using the `split` method. This will create a list of substrings representing the different parts of the IP address.
2. Join the substrings in the list using the "[.]" separator. This can be done using the `join` method, specifying "[.]" as the separator.
3. Return the resulting defanged IP address string.

#### Complexity Analysis

The time complexity of this algorithm is O(n), where n is the length of the `address` string. This is because splitting and joining the string both require linear time operations.

The space complexity of the algorithm is O(n) as well. This is because splitting the string into a list of substrings and joining them back together will require additional memory proportional to the length of the string.

#### Summary

The given solution effectively defangs an IPv4 address by replacing each period "." with "[.]" using the `split` and `join` methods. It has a time complexity of O(n) and a space complexity of O(n), making it an efficient solution for the problem.

***NB***: If you want to get community points please suggest solutions in other languages as merge requests.
