# [1929. Concatenation of Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/concatenation-of-array/)

**Difficulty:** :green_circle: Easy

Given an integer array `nums` of length `n`, you want to create an array `ans`
of length `2n` where `ans[i] == nums[i]` and `ans[i + n] == nums[i]` for 
`0 <= i < n` **(0-indexed)**.

Specifically, `ans` is the **concatenation** of two `nums` arrays.

Return *the array* `ans`.

## Examples:

**Example 1:**

```text
Input: nums = [1,2,1]
Output: [1,2,1,1,2,1]
Explanation: The array ans is formed as follows:
- ans = [nums[0],nums[1],nums[2],nums[0],nums[1],nums[2]]
- ans = [1,2,1,1,2,1]
```

**Example 2:**

```text
Input: nums = [1,3,2,1]
Output: [1,3,2,1,1,3,2,1]
Explanation: The array ans is formed as follows:
- ans = [nums[0],nums[1],nums[2],nums[3],nums[0],nums[1],nums[2],nums[3]]
- ans = [1,3,2,1,1,3,2,1]
```

## Constraints:

- `n == nums.length`
- `1 <= n <= 1000`
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 1000`

## Solutions

### O(n) solution

The given algorithm takes a list of integers `nums` as input and returns a new list that is the concatenation of `nums` with itself.

1. The algorithm defines a class `Solution` with a method `getConcatenation` that takes `nums` as a parameter and returns a list of integers.
2. Inside the `getConcatenation` method, a `for` loop is used to iterate over the indices of the `nums` list using the `range` function and `len(nums)` as the upper limit.
3. Within the loop, the algorithm appends the value at index `i` in `nums` to the end of the list using the `append` method. This effectively duplicates each element of `nums` and adds it to the end of the list.
4. Once the loop finishes, the modified `nums` list, which now contains the original elements followed by their duplicates, is returned as the result using the `return` statement.

**Complexity Analysis**

The time complexity of this algorithm is O(n), where n is the length of the input list `nums`. This is because the algorithm iterates over each element in the list exactly once.
The space complexity is also O(n), as the modified `nums` list is stored in memory, which can have a size equal to or slightly larger than the input list `nums` due to the appended elements.

#### Python3

```python3
class Solution:
    def getConcatenation(self, nums: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            nums.append(nums[i])
        return nums
```

#### TypeScript

``` typescript
function getConcatenation(nums: number[]): number[] {
    return nums.concat(nums)
};
```
***NB***: If you want to get community points please suggest solutions in other languages as merge requests.
