# [2433. Find The Original Array of Prefix Xor](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-original-array-of-prefix-xor/)

**Difficulty:** :yellow_circle: Medium

You are given an **integer** array `pref` of size `n`. Find and return *the array* `arr` *of size* `n` *that satisfies*:

- `pref[i] = arr[0] ^ arr[1] ^ ... ^ arr[i]`.

Note that `^` denotes the **bitwise-xor** operation.

It can be proven that the answer is **unique**.

## Examples:

**Example 1:**

```
Input: pref = [5,2,0,3,1]
Output: [5,7,2,3,2]
Explanation: From the array [5,7,2,3,2] we have the following:
- pref[0] = 5.
- pref[1] = 5 ^ 7 = 2.
- pref[2] = 5 ^ 7 ^ 2 = 0.
- pref[3] = 5 ^ 7 ^ 2 ^ 3 = 3.
- pref[4] = 5 ^ 7 ^ 2 ^ 3 ^ 2 = 1.

```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: pref = [13]
Output: [13]
Explanation: We have pref[0] = arr[0] = 13.

```

## Constraints:

- `1 <= pref.length <= 105`
- `0 <= pref[i] <= 106`

## Solutions

### O(n) solution

The given algorithm takes a list of integers `pref` as input and returns a new list where each element is calculated based on the bitwise XOR operation between consecutive elements of the input list.

1. The algorithm defines a class `Solution` with a method `findArray` that takes `pref` as a parameter and returns a list of integers.
2. Inside the `findArray` method, the algorithm initializes a list `answer` with the first element of the input list `pref`.
3. The algorithm then starts a loop that iterates over the indices `i` from 0 to the length of `pref` minus 1.
4. Within the loop, the algorithm calculates the bitwise XOR (`^`) operation between the current element at index `i` and the next element at index `i+1` in the `pref` list. This operation computes the XOR value of two consecutive elements.
5. The result of the XOR operation is appended to the `answer` list.
6. After iterating over all the elements in `pref` except the last one, the algorithm returns the `answer` list.

**Complexity Analysis**

The time complexity of this algorithm is O(n), where n is the length of the input list `pref`. This is because the algorithm iterates over each element in the list once to perform the XOR operation.
The space complexity is O(n), as the algorithm stores the XOR values in the `answer` list, which can have a size equal to or slightly smaller than the input list `pref` in the worst case.

#### Python3

```python3
class Solution:
    def findArray(self, pref: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        answer= [pref[0]]
        for i in range(len(pref)-1):
            answer.append(pref[i]^pref[i+1])

        return answer
```

#### TypeScript

``` typescript
function findArray(pref: number[]): number[] {
    const result: number[] = [];
    let pre = 0;
    for(let i = 0; i < pref.length; i++) {
        if(i === 0) {
            result.push(pref[0])
        } else {
            pre ^= result[i - 1] 
            result.push(pre ^ pref[i])
        }
    }
    return result;
};

```

***NB***: If you want to get community points please suggest solutions in other languages as merge requests.
