# [1486. XOR Operation in an Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/xor-operation-in-an-array/)**

**Difficulty:** :green_circle: Easy

You are given an integer `n` and an integer `start`.
Define an array `nums` where `nums[i] = start + 2 * i` (**0-indexed**) and `n == nums.length`.
Return *the bitwise XOR of all elements of* `nums`.

## Examples

**Example 1:**

```
Input: n = 5, start = 0
Output: 8
Explanation: Array nums is equal to [0, 2, 4, 6, 8] where (0 ^ 2 ^ 4 ^ 6 ^ 8) = 8.
Where "^" corresponds to bitwise XOR operator.

```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: n = 4, start = 3
Output: 8
Explanation: Array nums is equal to [3, 5, 7, 9] where (3 ^ 5 ^ 7 ^ 9) = 8.

```

## Constraints:
- `1 <= n <= 1000`
- `0 <= start <= 1000`
- `n == nums.length`


## Solutions

### O(n) solution

The given algorithm calculates the XOR operation of a sequence of numbers.

1. Initialize a variable `total` to 0. This variable will store the cumulative XOR result.
2. Iterate `n` times using a `for` loop, where the loop variable `i` ranges from 0 to `n-1`.
3. Within each iteration, calculate the value of `(start + 2 * i)`. This generates a sequence of numbers by starting with the value of `start` and incrementing it by 2 for each iteration.
4. Perform a bitwise XOR operation (`^=`) between the current value of `total` and the calculated value `(start + 2 * i)`. This XOR operation combines the bits of the two numbers, resulting in a new value for `total`.
5. After completing the loop, return the final value of `total`.

**Complexity Analysis**

- Time Complexity: The algorithm has a time complexity of O(n), where n is the input parameter representing the length of the sequence. This is because the algorithm iterates n times in the `for` loop to calculate the XOR operation.
- Space Complexity: The algorithm has a space complexity of O(1) since it only uses a constant amount of extra space to store the variables `total`, `n`, and `start`. The space required does not depend on the input size.

In summary, the algorithm has a linear time complexity of O(n) and a constant space complexity of O(1).

#### Python3

```python3
class Solution:
    def xorOperation(self, n: int, start: int) -> int:
        result = start
        for i in range(1, n):
            result ^= start + 2 * i
        return result
```

#### PHP

```php
class Solution {

    /**
     * @param Integer $n
     * @param Integer $start
     * @return Integer
     */
    function xorOperation($n, $start) {
        $result = $start;
        for($i = 1; $i < $n; $i++){
            $result = $result ^ ($start + 2* $i);
        }
        return $result;
    }
}
```
***NB***: If you want to get community points please suggest solutions in other languages as merge requests.
