# [2149. Rearrange Array Elements by Sign](https://leetcode.com/problems/rearrange-array-elements-by-sign/description/)

**Difficulty:** :yellow_circle:

You are given a **0-indexed** integer array `nums` of **even** length consisting of an **equal** number of positive and negative integers.

You should **rearrange** the elements of `nums` such that the modified array follows the given conditions:

1. Every **consecutive pair** of integers have **opposite signs**.
2. For all integers with the same sign, the **order** in which they were present in `nums` is **preserved**.
3. The rearranged array begins with a positive integer.

Return *the modified array after rearranging the elements to satisfy the aforementioned conditions*.


## Examples:

**Example 1:**

```
Input: nums = [3,1,-2,-5,2,-4]
Output: [3,-2,1,-5,2,-4]
Explanation:
The positive integers in nums are [3,1,2]. The negative integers are [-2,-5,-4].
The only possible way to rearrange them such that they satisfy all conditions is [3,-2,1,-5,2,-4].
Other ways such as [1,-2,2,-5,3,-4], [3,1,2,-2,-5,-4], [-2,3,-5,1,-4,2] are incorrect because they do not satisfy one or more conditions.

```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: nums = [-1,1]
Output: [1,-1]
Explanation:
1 is the only positive integer and -1 the only negative integer in nums.
So nums is rearranged to [1,-1].

```


## Constraints:

- `2 <= nums.length <= 2 * 105`
- `nums.length` is **even**
- `1 <= |nums[i]| <= 105`
- `nums` consists of **equal** number of positive and negative integers.


## Solutions

### O(n) solution

The algorithm aims to rearrange the elements in the input list `nums` such that positive numbers occupy the even indices and negative numbers occupy the odd indices. Here's a step-by-step analysis of the algorithm's time and space complexity:

1. **Initialization**: The algorithm initializes a new list called `result` with the same length as the input list `nums`. This operation takes O(n) time, where n is the length of the input list.

2. **Rearranging Elements**: The algorithm uses two pointers, `i` and `j`, to track the even and odd indices in the `result` list, respectively. It iterates over each element `num` in the `nums` list. If `num` is greater than 0 (positive), it assigns `num` to the `i`-th index in the `result` list and increments `i` by 2. If `num` is less than or equal to 0 (negative or zero), it assigns `num` to the `j`-th index in the `result` list and increments `j` by 2. This loop iterates over each element in the `nums` list, resulting in a time complexity of O(n).

3. **Returning Result**: Finally, the algorithm returns the rearranged `result` list, which requires constant time.

Therefore, the overall time complexity of the algorithm is O(n).

In terms of space complexity, the algorithm creates a new list, `result`, with the same length as the input list `nums`. Hence, the space complexity is O(n).

To summarize:
- Time complexity: O(n) - Linear time complexity, where n is the length of the input list.
- Space complexity: O(n) - Linear space complexity, where n is the length of the input list.

The algorithm efficiently rearranges the elements of the input list in a specific pattern by iterating over each element once. It utilizes two pointers to place positive numbers in even indices and negative numbers in odd indices. The algorithm has a linear time complexity, making it suitable for processing lists of moderate size.

#### Python3

```python3
class Solution:
    def countMatches(self, items: List[List[str]], ruleKey: str, ruleValue: str) -> int:
        count = 0
        for type_, color, name in items:
            if ruleKey == "type" and type_ == ruleValue:
                count += 1
            elif ruleKey == "color" and color == ruleValue:
                count += 1
            elif ruleKey == "name" and name == ruleValue:
                count += 1
        return count
```

***NB***: If you want to get community points please suggest solutions in other languages as merge requests.
