# [771. Jewels and Stones](https://leetcode.com/problems/jewels-and-stones/)

**Difficulty:** :green_circle: Easy

You're given strings `jewels` representing the types of stones that are jewels, and `stones` representing the stones you have. Each character in `stones` is a type of stone you have. You want to know how many of the stones you have are also jewels.

Letters are case sensitive, so `"a"` is considered a different type of stone from `"A"`.

## Examples:

**Example 1:**

```
Input: jewels = "aA", stones = "aAAbbbb"
Output: 3

```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: jewels = "z", stones = "ZZ"
Output: 0

```

## Constraints:

- `1 <= jewels.length, stones.length <= 50`
- `jewels` and `stones` consist of only English letters.
- All the characters of `jewels` are **unique**.

## Solutions

### O(n) solution 

**Python 3**

```python3
class Solution:
    def numJewelsInStones(self, jewels: str, stones: str) -> int:
        items = set([jewel for jewel in jewels])
        return sum([1 for stone in stones if stone in items])
```

The given solution provides a straightforward approach to solving the problem.

Here is an overview of the solution:

1. Create a set called `items` to store the unique types of stones that are jewels. Iterate through each character in the `jewels` string and add it to the set.
2. Use a list comprehension to iterate through each character in the `stones` string. Check if the character is present in the `items` set. If it is, increment a counter by 1.
3. Return the counter, which represents the number of stones that are also jewels.

#### Complexity Analysis

The time complexity for this solution is O(len(jewels) + len(stones)), as we iterate through the `jewels` string to create the `items` set and iterate through the `stones` string to count the jewels.

The space complexity is O(len(jewels)) because we create a set to store the unique types of jewels.

#### Summary

The given solution provides a straightforward approach to count the number of stones that are also jewels. It creates a set of unique jewels and iterates through the stones, incrementing a counter for each stone that is present in the set. The solution runs in linear time and requires additional space to store the set of jewels.


***NB***: If you want to get community points please suggest solutions in other languages as merge requests.
