# [1732. Find the Highest Altitude](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-highest-altitude/)

**Difficulty:** :green_circle: Easy

There is a biker going on a road trip. The road trip consists of `n + 1` points at different altitudes. The biker starts his trip on point `0` with altitude equal `0`.

You are given an integer array `gain` of length `n` where `gain[i]` is the **net gain in altitude** between points `i` and `i + 1` for all (`0 <= i < n)`. Return *the **highest altitude** of a point.*


## Examples:

**Example 1:**

```
Input: gain = [-5,1,5,0,-7]
Output: 1
Explanation: The altitudes are [0,-5,-4,1,1,-6]. The highest is 1.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: gain = [-4,-3,-2,-1,4,3,2]
Output: 0
Explanation: The altitudes are [0,-4,-7,-9,-10,-6,-3,-1]. The highest is 0.
```


## Constraints:

- `n == gain.length`
- `1 <= n <= 100`
- `100 <= gain[i] <= 100`


## Solutions

### O(n) solution 

**Python 3**

```python3
class Solution:
    def largestAltitude(self, gain: List[int]) -> int:
        current = 0
        largest = 0
        for net_gain in gain:
            current += net_gain
            largest = max(largest, current)
        return largest
```

The given solution provides a simple approach to find the highest altitude during the trip.

Here is a step-by-step overview of the solution:

1. Initialize two variables: `current` and `largest`, both set to 0. These variables will keep track of the current altitude and the highest altitude reached, respectively.
2. Iterate through the `gain` array, which represents the net gain in altitude between consecutive points.
3. For each net gain in altitude, update the `current` altitude by adding the net gain.
4. Update the `largest` altitude if the `current` altitude is greater than the `largest` altitude seen so far.
5. Return the `largest` altitude, which is the highest altitude during the trip.

#### Complexity Analysis

The time complexity for this solution is O(n), where n is the length of the `gain` array. We iterate through the array once.

The space complexity is O(1) because we are using a constant amount of additional space to store variables.

#### Summary

The given solution provides a straightforward approach to find the highest altitude reached during a road trip, given the net gain in altitude between consecutive points. It maintains two variables: `current` to track the current altitude and `largest` to track the highest altitude seen so far. The solution runs in linear time and constant space complexity.

***NB***: If you want to get community points please suggest solutions in other languages as merge requests.
